# password-creation-and-management
Implementation of password creation and management tools

This project consists of two parts.
The first part includes implementing a password management tool and creating complex and secure passwords.
The second part includes using the Statsgen tool to analyze the passwords generated by the implemented tool.

## Part 1 - Description
In the https://github.com/BornFromAshes/password-strength-checker-and-cracker project, we saw that password security has a direct relationship with the size of the password space, but the problem starts from the point where it is difficult to remember a password with good security characteristics, and most people choose easy passwords that have good security. Vulnerable to traditional password attacks. Also, most people and users, if they choose a suitable password with a large space, store it in a non-secure place. One of the solutions to this challenge is to use password management tools.  
This type of tool should have two key features. First, it must have the ability to generate secure and complex passwords, and second, the tool itself must be secure.
In this section, we want to implement a password management tool.

### Features of the tool:
The tool can take a simple password that is easy for the user to remember and then generate complex passwords from it.

**Note:** The AES encryption system  and the simple password given by the user as clear text (encryption system input) or encryption system key are used here.

This tool can manage production passwords. This means that during the creation of the password, the user chooses a name and a text as a comment for the created password, which indicates its use and the comment to explain more about the use of that password for that person.

For example: the user creates a password with the name of the university portal and a password with the name of the Bank.
After creating these two passwords, the user can view the list of passwords and use their names to view the password value and either delete it or update that password (create a new password value).

Please note that in the password management section, the tool can store generated passwords in a text file, and also to preserve the confidentiality of generated passwords, the text file must be stored encrypted in your system.

**Note:** For simplicity, the same simple password given by the user was used as the encryption key to encrypt the password text file.

**Note:** All generated passwords are generated from the same simple password given by the user (a function of it).

### Important implementation points:
The following command format is used to implement the CLI part of the tool.
```
passmanager.py –newpass “user password name ” –c “comment” –key “user simple password”
```
for example:
```
passmanager.py –newpass uniportal -c pass for my uni portal - key 1234
```
To show the names of passwords created and saved by the user:
```
passmanager.py –showpass
```
To show the value of the password and its corresponding comment:
```
passmanager.py –sel “user password name”
```
To update the password value with a new value:
```
passmanager.py –update “user password name”
```
To remove the password:
```
passmanager.py –del “user password name ”
```

## Part 2 - Description
In this section, we want to statistically analyze the passwords generated by the tool using the Statsgen tool. The purpose of this task is to check how well the tool is capable of generating passwords with good randomness properties. (The degree of similarity of generated passwords to each other is important). This property is a good measure to check how resistant the passwords generated by the tool are to statistical analysis.

### Implementation
1. In this mode, the tool will create 10,000 passwords from the password "0000".
2. Saves generated passwords in a text file called test.txt.
3. In the final step, we give the text file to the Statsgen tool.






